docs/frameworks/langchain/setup.md, before:

# LangChain setup for running locally

## Setup

!!! note

    You can skip this page if you are interested in Colab notebooks only.

    These are the instructions for local setup of the LangChain-specific
    Python environment. A prerequisite is the [general setup for running locally](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter).

You should have a copy of this repository from the [general local-run setup](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter) already.
Go to the `docs/frameworks/langchain` subdirectory.

Create a Python 3.8+
[virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/user_guide.html),
activate it and install the required dependencies with:

```
pip install -r requirements_langchain.txt
```

!!! info

    We are still in the process of getting
    all Cassandra components in the distributed LangChain:
    for this reason, until this is completed,
    the current requirements file temporarily
    installs LangChain from a fork we maintain.

## Launch

Make sure you are in `docs/frameworks/langchain` and the virtual environment is active.

Source the API Key configuration with

```
. ../../../.api_keys
```

Now fire up Jupyter with:

```
jupyter notebook
```

and wait for a browser window to open with the notebooks in this directory,
ready to run.

## Database choice

The code looks for an Astra DB instance by default (as defined in
the `.env` file at the root of this repo).

If you have a Cassandra cluster
and want to use it instead, all you need is to find the notebook cell
where the two calls `getCQLSession` and `getCQLKeyspace` take place:
you can switch to a Cassandra cluster by changing the value
of the variable `cqlMode` therein from `astra_db` to `local`.
See the
["Further reading"](/more_info/#use-the-local-cassandra-in-the-code)
section for more on using a local Cassandra.

Commit message:

connection code and most notebooks (missing: all langchain except qa-basic)

docs/frameworks/langchain/setup.md, after:

# LangChain setup for running locally

## Setup

!!! note

    You can skip this page if you are interested in Colab notebooks only.

    These are the instructions for local setup of the LangChain-specific
    Python environment. A prerequisite is the [general setup for running locally](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter).

You should have a copy of this repository from the [general local-run setup](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter) already.
Go to the `docs/frameworks/langchain` subdirectory.

Create a Python 3.8+
[virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/user_guide.html),
activate it and install the required dependencies with:

```
pip install -r requirements_langchain.txt
```

!!! info

    We are still in the process of getting
    all Cassandra components in the distributed LangChain:
    for this reason, until this is completed,
    the current requirements file temporarily
    installs LangChain from a fork we maintain.

## Launch

Make sure you are in `docs/frameworks/langchain` and the virtual environment is active.

Source the API Key configuration with

```
. ../../../.api_keys
```

Now fire up Jupyter with:

```
jupyter notebook
```

and wait for a browser window to open with the notebooks in this directory,
ready to run.

## Database choice

The notebooks provide a choice between using Cassandra and Astra DB.
Keep in mind that, if on a Colab, only Astra DB is supported out of the box.
Check the ["Further reading"](/more_info/) section for more information.
