docs/frameworks/llamaindex/setup.md, before:

# LlamaIndex setup for running locally

## Setup

!!! note

    You can skip this page if you are interested in Colab notebooks only.

    These are the instructions for local setup of the LlamaIndex-specific
    Python environment. A prerequisite is the [general setup for running locally](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter).

You should have a copy of this repository from the [general local-run setup](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter) already.
Go to the `docs/frameworks/llamaindex` subdirectory.

Create a Python 3.8+
[virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/user_guide.html),
activate it and install the required dependencies with:

```
pip install -r requirements_llamaindex.txt
```

## Launch

Make sure you are in `docs/frameworks/llamaindex` and the virtual environment is active.

Source the API Key configuration with

```
. ../../../.api_keys
```

Now fire up Jupyter with:

```
jupyter notebook
```

and wait for a browser window to open with the notebooks in this directory,
ready to run.

## Database choice

The code looks for an Astra DB instance by default (as defined in
the `.env` file at the root of this repo).

If you have a Cassandra cluster
and want to use it instead, all you need is to find the notebook cell
where the two calls `getCQLSession` and `getCQLKeyspace` take place:
you can switch to a Cassandra cluster by changing the value
of the variable `cqlMode` therein from `astra_db` to `local`.
See the
["Further reading"](/more_info/#use-the-local-cassandra-in-the-code)
section for more on using a local Cassandra.

Commit message:

wip on new cassio.init for llama

docs/frameworks/llamaindex/setup.md, after:

# LlamaIndex setup for running locally

## Setup

!!! note

    You can skip this page if you are interested in Colab notebooks only.

    These are the instructions for local setup of the LlamaIndex-specific
    Python environment. A prerequisite is the [general setup for running locally](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter).

You should have a copy of this repository from the [general local-run setup](/more_info/#run-with-local-jupyter) already.
Go to the `docs/frameworks/llamaindex` subdirectory.

Create a Python 3.8+
[virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/user_guide.html),
activate it and install the required dependencies with:

```
pip install -r requirements_llamaindex.txt
```

## Launch

Make sure you are in `docs/frameworks/llamaindex` and the virtual environment is active.

Source the API Key configuration with

```
. ../../../.api_keys
```

Now fire up Jupyter with:

```
jupyter notebook
```

and wait for a browser window to open with the notebooks in this directory,
ready to run.

## Database choice

The code looks for an Astra DB instance by default (as defined in
the `.env` file at the root of this repo).

If you have a Cassandra cluster
and want to use it instead, all you need is to replace the `cassio.init(...)`
method call in the notebook cell and replace with something like:

```python
cassio.init(
    session=...,
    keyspace=...,
)
```

provided you have created a `cassandra.cluster.Session` to your database
and have a keyspace name (string).

See the
["Further reading"](/more_info/#use-the-local-cassandra-in-the-code)
section for more on using a local Cassandra.
